TOOLBOX
=======

This repository contains various utilities and tools that can be used
during PHP + SQL development.


Compare PostgreSQL dumps
------------------------

I use this script to compare schemas of two SQL dumps. It takes SQL dump
produced by pg_dump and converts it into a text file suitable for diffing.
Tables and fields in a table are sorted.

Example of usage:

    $ pg_dump -s moodle20a > moodle20a.sql
    $ pg_dump -s moodle20b > moodle20b.sql
    $ comparesql.php moodle20a.sql > moodle20a.txt
    $ comparesql.php moodle20b.sql > moodle20b.txt
    $ diff moodle20a.txt moodle20b.txt


Check multiple string definitions
---------------------------------

Moodle and Mahara defines strings as associative array. I use this script to
detect if there is a single string defined multiple times in a file.

Example of usage:

    $ cd ~/public_html/moodle20
    $ for stringfile in $( find -type f -name '*.php' | grep '/lang/en/' | sort ); do
    > php checkmultistring.php $stringfile
    > done

Generate Moodle PULL request information for the current branch
---------------------------------------------------------------

I use this script when creating a new PULL request for Moodle. The script expects
that the working directory is inside a Moodle Git clone and that the current branch
is pushed to my github repository clone. Note that I have push.default set to 'current'
in my global Git configuration

Example of usage:

    $ cd ~/public_html/moodle20
    $ git checkout -b MDL-12345-something origin/master
    $ ... (edit files, commit the changes)
    $ git push github
    $ pullinfo

Now I can go to the tracker and use the values generated by ''pulinfo'' when
filling the PULL request.
